2023-08-07-advantages-of-multiple-application-instances.md (#2393)
18F/cg-site: _kbarticles/2023-08-07-advantages-of-multiple-application-instances.md

---
layout: post

> title: "Advantages of multiple application instances"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Scaling your cloud.gov applications"
```

date: August 7, 2023

> excerpt: Advantages of multiple application instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
excerpt: How and why to scale your cloud.gov applications by adding more application instances
```

---

## Importance of multiple application instances

> One of the benefits of Cloud.gov is the underlying ability to deploy applications, it allows you to very simply take an application’s source code and [launch an application in the Cloud.gov environment with a command](https://cloud.gov/docs/deployment/deployment/#how-deployment-works). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

One of the benefits of Cloud.gov is the ability to [deploy applications with a simple command](https://cloud.gov/docs/deployment/deployment/#how-deployment-works). 
```

Multiple application instances allow customer traffic to continue being served if there are any issues with any individual application instance such as if an underlying platform component is being upgraded. Additionally having multiple application instances provides decreased chance of downtime. 

Running multiple application instances allows your instances to be [scheduled across availability zones](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/latest/real-time-communication-on-aws/use-multiple-availability-zones.html). The increased number of instances also assists with load-balancing user requests to your application (Please note: you should set up your instances to share session data when using multiple application instances).

Most recently, [as detailed in the EPA AirNow customer story](https://cloud.gov/docs/customer-stories/epa-airnow-gov/), the EPA’s AirNow program utilized the ability to quickly and easily scale up their number of application instances to handle increased customer traffic.

## How it works

> Using the [cf push command](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/deploy-apps/deploy-app.html#custom-cf-push) you can use the `-i` flag to indicate the number of application instances you would like.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Using the [cf push command](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/deploy-apps/deploy-app.html#custom-cf-push), you can use the `-i` flag to indicate the number of application instances you would like.
```

> Example pushing an application with 2 instances:
> `cf push myapp -i 2`

Reviewer: ````suggestion
For example, pushing an application with 2 instances:

```shell
cf push myapp -i 2
```
````

> Additionally you can also define the number of application instances in your application manifest.yml file with the [instance manifest attribute](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/deploy-apps/manifest-attributes.html#instances).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, you can also define the number of application instances in your application `manifest.yml` file with the [`instances` manifest attribute](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/deploy-apps/manifest-attributes.html#instances).
```

> Example for defining an application with 2 instances in your manifest.yml file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example for defining an application with 2 instances in your `manifest.yml` file:

```

`cf scale myapp -i 2`

Please note, running multiple instances may sometimes cause scheduled tasks or data loads to run multiple times. This issue can be prevented by using the [cf-instance-index](http://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/deploy-apps/environment-variable.html#CF-INSTANCE-INDEX) environment variable. This variable denotes the specific instance number.

## Application instances and memory usage
Each individual application instance utilizes the same amount of [org memory and disk reservation/limit](https://cloud.gov/docs/management/limits/) that is specified in the application manifest or indicated in the `cf push` command. Please note the application cannot access more than the specified amount of memory. 

For example if the org `my-example-org` had a memory quota of 3 GB and were hosting a single application `myapp` that had specified 256 mb of memory per application instance in their manifest with 4 application instances specified in their manifest, then the application would be utilizing 1 GB of the org’s 3 GB total memory quota. This would leave 2 GB available for the org to otherwise use. 

> 
> If the org wanted to scale up their number of running application instances they could use the cf scale command to increase their number of instances to 6 instances `cf scale myapp -i 6` which would then increase their number of running application instances to 6 instances. Which should increase their org memory being used from 1 GB to 1.5 GB and leaving 1.5 GB free.
> 
> If `my-example-org` wanted to later decrease their number of running application instances from 6 instances down to 4 instances, they could also use `cf scale myapp -i 4` which would result in 1 GB of org memory being used and leaving 2 GB available for the org to otherwise use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I think the first example is sufficient

---
layout: post
title: "Scaling your cloud.gov applications"
date: August 7, 2023
excerpt: How and why to scale your cloud.gov applications by adding more application instances
---

## Importance of multiple application instances

One of the benefits of Cloud.gov is the ability to [deploy applications with a simple command](https://cloud.gov/docs/deployment/deployment/#how-deployment-works). 

Once an application is up and available, resiliency of that application becomes a consideration and as such running multiple application instances is paramount. Running multiple instances of an application increases the resilience and availability of the application.

Multiple application instances allow customer traffic to continue being served if there are any issues with any individual application instance such as if an underlying platform component is being upgraded. Additionally having multiple application instances provides decreased chance of downtime. 

> Running multiple application instances allows your instances to be [scheduled across availability zones](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/latest/real-time-communication-on-aws/use-multiple-availability-zones.html). The increased number of instances also assists with load-balancing user requests to your application (Please note: you should set up your instances to share session data when using multiple application instances).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running multiple application instances allows increases the chances that your application will be [balanced across availability zones](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/concepts/diego/diego-auction.html#auction).
```

Great point about the availability zones, though based on the link I got from Van it doesn't seem guaranteed that instances are distributed across AZs, just possible. 

I think the point about load-balancing is made sufficiently with the previous paragraph, what do you think?

For example, pushing an application with 2 instances:

```shell
cf push myapp -i 2
```

Additionally, you can also define the number of application instances in your application `manifest.yml` file with the [`instances` manifest attribute](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/deploy-apps/manifest-attributes.html#instances).

An example for defining an application with 2 instances in your `manifest.yml` file:

```shell
    memory: 512mb
    instances: 2
    applications:
        name: myapp
        path: .
```

Please note the default number of instances is 1 instance.

You can also use the [cf scale](http://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/deploy-apps/cf-scale.html) command to increase the number of instances for a running app.

`cf scale myapp -i 2`

Please note, running multiple instances may sometimes cause scheduled tasks or data loads to run multiple times. This issue can be prevented by using the [cf-instance-index](http://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/deploy-apps/environment-variable.html#CF-INSTANCE-INDEX) environment variable. This variable denotes the specific instance number.

> ## Application instances and memory usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Application instances and memory usage

```

> Each individual application instance utilizes the same amount of [org memory and disk reservation/limit](https://cloud.gov/docs/management/limits/) that is specified in the application manifest or indicated in the `cf push` command. Please note the application cannot access more than the specified amount of memory. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each individual application instance utilizes the same amount of memory that is specified in the application manifest or indicated in the `cf push` command. Please note that the application cannot use more than the [defined memory quota for your org]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _docs/management/limits.md %} .
```

Disk quota limits are at the application level only, not the org level

Also, all links in Jekyll posts should use the dynamic link pattern where Jekyll will dynamically generate the URL to the post, which reduces the chances of stale or inaccurate links

> For example if the org `my-example-org` had a memory quota of 3 GB and were hosting a single application `myapp` that had specified 256 mb of memory per application instance in their manifest with 4 application instances specified in their manifest, then the application would be utilizing 1 GB of the org’s 3 GB total memory quota. This would leave 2 GB available for the org to otherwise use. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if the org `my-example-org` had:

- a memory quota of 3 GB and were hosting a single application `myapp` 
- 256 MB of memory per application instance 
- 4 application instances

Then, the application would be utilizing 1 GB (256 MB * 4 instances) of the org’s 3 GB total memory quota. This would leave 2 GB available for the org to otherwise use. 
```

Breaking up the wall of text into a list improves the readability

---
layout: post
title: "Scaling your cloud.gov applications"
date: August 7, 2023
excerpt: How and why to scale your cloud.gov applications by adding more application instances
---

## Importance of multiple application instances

One of the benefits of Cloud.gov is the ability to [deploy applications with a simple command](https://cloud.gov/docs/deployment/deployment/#how-deployment-works). 

> Once an application is up and available, resiliency of that application becomes a consideration and as such running multiple application instances is paramount. Running multiple instances of an application increases the resilience and availability of the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, applications are deployed with a single instance which handles all traffic and load for your application. If you have unexpected surges in application load, it is likely that your single application instance may run out of available CPU or memory or both, leading to an outage for your application. 

There is a solution to improve the availability of your applications on cloud.gov: horizontally scale your application by running multiple application instances. Running multiple application instances increases the overall load that your application can handle. The load is balanced among the application instances to ensure that no single instance is prematurely overloaded and thus to maximize the availability of your application. By default, the routing infrastructure in cloud.gov [distributes requests to application instances using a `round-robin` algorithm](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/concepts/http-routing.html#balancing-algorithm).
```

We need to explain why the default deployment of a single instance can be a problem before we prescribe multiple application instances as the solution.

Also, multiple application instances only improves availability, not resiliency. resiliency is about recovering from failure: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/well-architected/resiliency/testing

> 
> Multiple application instances allow customer traffic to continue being served if there are any issues with any individual application instance such as if an underlying platform component is being upgraded. Additionally having multiple application instances provides decreased chance of downtime. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Having multiple instances doesn't protect you from platform-level outages. Requests to all application instances have to go through the same routing infrastructure, so if any of that infrastructure failed, you would still have outages.

Running multiple application instances allows your instances to be [scheduled across availability zones](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/latest/real-time-communication-on-aws/use-multiple-availability-zones.html). The increased number of instances also assists with load-balancing user requests to your application (Please note: you should set up your instances to share session data when using multiple application instances).

> Most recently, [as detailed in the EPA AirNow customer story](https://cloud.gov/docs/customer-stories/epa-airnow-gov/), the EPA’s AirNow program utilized the ability to quickly and easily scale up their number of application instances to handle increased customer traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The benefits of running multiple application instances are [exemplified in the EPA AirNow.gov customer story]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _docs/customer-stories/epa-airnow-gov.md %}), which details how the EPA utilized the ability to quickly and easily scale up their number of application instances to handle increased customer traffic for AirNow.gov.
```

---
layout: post
title: "Scaling your cloud.gov applications"
date: August 7, 2023
excerpt: How and why to scale your cloud.gov applications by adding more application instances
---

## Importance of multiple application instances

One of the benefits of Cloud.gov is the ability to [deploy applications with a simple command](https://cloud.gov/docs/deployment/deployment/#how-deployment-works). 

> By default, applications are deployed with a single instance which handles all traffic and load for your application. If you have unexpected surges in application load, it is likely that your single application instance may run out of available CPU or memory or both, leading to an outage for your application. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, applications are deployed with a single instance which handles all traffic and load for your application. The downside of a single application instance is that if you have unexpected surges in application load, it is likely that your  instance may run out of available CPU or memory or both, leading to an outage for your application. 
```

> There is a solution to improve the availability of your applications on cloud.gov: horizontally scale your application by running multiple application instances. Running multiple application instances increases the overall load that your application can handle. The load is balanced among the application instances to ensure that no single instance is prematurely overloaded and thus to maximize the availability of your application. By default, the routing infrastructure in cloud.gov [distributes requests to application instances using a `round-robin` algorithm](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/concepts/http-routing.html#balancing-algorithm).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To increase the load that your application can handle, you can horizontally scale your application by running multiple application instances. Adding application instances improves your application's availability, or ability to respond to requests. Your application requests are load-balanced among the application instances to ensure that no single instance is prematurely overloaded, thus to maximizing your application availability. By default, the routing infrastructure in cloud.gov [distributes requests to application instances using a `round-robin` algorithm](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/concepts/http-routing.html#balancing-algorithm).
```

> Running multiple application instances allows increases the chances that your application will be [balanced across availability zones](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/concepts/diego/diego-auction.html#auction).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running multiple application instances also increases the chances that your application will be [balanced across availability zones](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/concepts/diego/diego-auction.html#auction).
```

## How it works

Using the [cf push command](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/deploy-apps/deploy-app.html#custom-cf-push), you can use the `-i` flag to indicate the number of application instances you would like.

For example, pushing an application with 2 instances:

```shell
cf push myapp -i 2
```

Additionally, you can also define the number of application instances in your application `manifest.yml` file with the [`instances` manifest attribute](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/deploy-apps/manifest-attributes.html#instances).

An example for defining an application with 2 instances in your `manifest.yml` file:

```shell
    memory: 512mb
    instances: 2
    applications:
        name: myapp
        path: .
```

Please note the default number of instances is 1 instance.

You can also use the [cf scale](http://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/deploy-apps/cf-scale.html) command to increase the number of instances for a running app.

> `cf scale myapp -i 2`

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```shell
cf scale myapp -i 2
```
````

> Please note, running multiple instances may sometimes cause scheduled tasks or data loads to run multiple times. This issue can be prevented by using the [cf-instance-index](http://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/deploy-apps/environment-variable.html#CF-INSTANCE-INDEX) environment variable. This variable denotes the specific instance number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that running multiple instances may sometimes cause scheduled tasks or data loads to run multiple times. This issue can be prevented by updating scheduled tasks to use the [`CF_INSTANCE_INDEX` environment variable]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _docs/management/multiple-instances %}#managing-multiple-instances-with-cf-instance-index), which denotes a specific application instance number.
```

---
layout: post
title: "Scaling your cloud.gov applications"
date: August 7, 2023
excerpt: How and why to scale your cloud.gov applications by adding more application instances
---

> ## Importance of multiple application instances

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Importance of multiple application instances
```

One of the benefits of Cloud.gov is the ability to [deploy applications with a simple command](https://cloud.gov/docs/deployment/deployment/#how-deployment-works). 

> By default, applications are deployed with a single instance which handles all traffic and load for your application. The downside of a single application instance is that if you have unexpected surges in application load, it is likely that your  instance may run out of available CPU or memory or both, leading to an outage for your application. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, applications are deployed with a single instance which handles all traffic and load for your application. The downside of a single application instance is that if you have unexpected surges in application load, it is likely that your instance may run out of available CPU or memory or both, leading to an outage for your application. 
```

> To increase your application's ability to respond to requests, also known as availability, you can horizontally scale your application by running multiple application instances. When you have multiple application instances, your application requests are load-balanced among them to ensure that no single instance is prematurely overloaded, thus maximizing your application availability. By default, the routing infrastructure in cloud.gov [distributes requests to application instances using a `round-robin` algorithm](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/concepts/http-routing.html#balancing-algorithm).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To increase your application's ability to respond to requests, also known as availability, you can horizontally scale your application by running multiple application instances. When you have multiple application instances, your application requests are load-balanced among them to ensure that no single instance is prematurely overloaded, thus maximizing your availability. 

By default, the routing infrastructure in cloud.gov [distributes requests to application instances using a `round-robin` algorithm](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/concepts/http-routing.html#balancing-algorithm).
```

> To increase the load that your application can handle, you can horizontally scale your application by running multiple application instances. Adding application instances improves your application's availability, or ability to respond to requests. Your application requests are load-balanced among the application instances to ensure that no single instance is prematurely overloaded, thus to maximizing your application availability. By default, the routing infrastructure in cloud.gov [distributes requests to application instances using a `round-robin` algorithm](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/concepts/http-routing.html#balancing-algorithm).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To increase your application's ability to respond to requests, also known as availability, you can horizontally scale your application by running multiple application instances. When you have multiple application instances, your application requests are load-balanced among them to ensure that no single instance is prematurely overloaded, thus maximizing your application availability. By default, the routing infrastructure in cloud.gov [distributes requests to application instances using a `round-robin` algorithm](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/concepts/http-routing.html#balancing-algorithm).
```

Running multiple application instances also increases the chances that your application will be [balanced across availability zones](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/concepts/diego/diego-auction.html#auction).

The benefits of running multiple application instances are [exemplified in the EPA AirNow.gov customer story]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _docs/customer-stories/epa-airnow-gov.md %}), which details how the EPA utilized the ability to quickly and easily scale up their number of application instances to handle increased customer traffic for AirNow.gov.

> ## How it works

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How to scale your application instances
```

For example, pushing an application with 2 instances:

```shell
cf push myapp -i 2
```

Additionally, you can also define the number of application instances in your application `manifest.yml` file with the [`instances` manifest attribute](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/deploy-apps/manifest-attributes.html#instances).

An example for defining an application with 2 instances in your `manifest.yml` file:

```shell
    memory: 512mb
    instances: 2
    applications:
        name: myapp
        path: .
```

Please note the default number of instances is 1 instance.

You can also use the [cf scale](http://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/deploy-apps/cf-scale.html) command to increase the number of instances for a running app.

```shell
cf scale myapp -i 2
```

Please note that running multiple instances may sometimes cause scheduled tasks or data loads to run multiple times. This issue can be prevented by updating scheduled tasks to use the [`CF_INSTANCE_INDEX` environment variable]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _docs/management/multiple-instances.md %}#managing-multiple-instances-with-cf-instance-index), which denotes a specific application instance number.

> ## Application instances and memory usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Application instances and memory usage
```

> Please note that running multiple instances may sometimes cause scheduled tasks or data loads to run multiple times. This issue can be prevented by updating scheduled tasks to use the [`CF_INSTANCE_INDEX` environment variable]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _docs/management/multiple-instances %}#managing-multiple-instances-with-cf-instance-index), which denotes a specific application instance number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that running multiple instances may sometimes cause scheduled tasks or data loads to run multiple times. This issue can be prevented by updating scheduled tasks to use the [`CF_INSTANCE_INDEX` environment variable]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _docs/management/multiple-instances.md %}#managing-multiple-instances-with-cf-instance-index), which denotes a specific application instance number.
```

> Each individual application instance utilizes the same amount of memory that is specified in the application manifest or indicated in the `cf push` command. Please note that the application cannot use more than the [defined memory quota for your org]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _docs/management/limits.md %} .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each individual application instance utilizes the same amount of memory that is specified in the application manifest or indicated in the `cf push` command. Please note that the application cannot use more than the [defined memory quota for your org]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _docs/management/limits.md %}).
```
